![Distribution-Based Feature Search](images/2017-3-13/dist_feature1.png)

![Distribution-Based Feature Search](images/2017-3-13/dist_feature2.png)

**Problem**: Distribution-based (histogram-based) features has been utilized in
many volume analysis and visualization applications. However, local histogram
computation and matching is difficult in multi-field dataset due to the high
computational cost. 1. Itâ€™s infeasible to scan through the entire data space
and compute and compare local histogram in each location. 2. The number of
histogram bins increases exponentially as the number of fields or dimensions
increases, which requires a large amount of bin-by-bin comparison. 3. The high
computation cost when searching for large-sized feature, which is defined by a
large neighborhood-sized histogram.

**Proposed Solution**: We utilizing bitmap indexing to reduce the search space
from the entire space domain to the voxels whose values fall into the
user-defined value range and their neighborhood voxels. Then apply the local
deposit approach to construct a local histogram in an inverse way. In the
multi-field feature search cases, we proposed two complementary algorithms for
accelerating local distribution searches. Both algorithms first approximate a
search result, and then use a low-cost refinement step to generate the final
search result. The first approach is merged-bin comparison (MBC). Instead of
comparing individual bins iteratively, we compare multiple histogram bins
between two histograms in one pass. Utilizing a property of distance measures,
our approximate search result from MBC has no false negatives so that the
refinement process only needs to remove the false positives to generate the
final result. The second approach is called sampled-active-voxels (SAV). This
utilizes stratified sampling to quickly generate approximate initial results,
which are close to the final results when compared to simple random sampling.
So the cost of refinement can thus be reduced.

[Link to the slide](files/2017-3-13/distribution_feature.pptx)
