*Our project has been renewed for three more years under the DOE ASCR Proposal
 titled "Visual Analytics for Large Scale Scientific Ensemble Datasets".*

Scientific ensemble data sets have played increasingly more important roles for
uncertainty quantification in various scientific and engineering domains, such
as climate, weather, aerodynamics, and computational fluid dynamics.  Ensembles
are collections of data produced by simulations or experiments conducted with
different initial conditions, parameterizations, or phenomenological models.
They are usually used to describe complex systems, study sensitivities to
initial conditions and parameters, and mitigate uncertainty. The goal of this
proposal is to develop visual analytic techniques for large scale scientific
ensemble data sets. Using ensemble simulations as an example, for a single run
of such a simulation, there can be data generated in the range of several
hundred gigabytes to tens of terabytes. A large scale ensemble dataset can
consist of hundreds or thousands of such instances, with many variables in the
form of scalar, vector, or tensor, and has a large number of samples in the
high-dimensional input parameter space.

This project aims to build a comprehensive visual analytic framework for
analyzing large scale scientific ensemble data. Our framework will provide a
strong foundation for developing future generation visualization techniques for
a very important class of applications in a wide range of scientific
disciplines. The development of our integrated analysis and visualization
framework will not only make tangible contribution to our target applications,
but can also be generalized to other domain problems. The key impact that we
anticipate is the demonstration of a working and attractive solution to assist
scientists to comprehend vast amounts of data generated by large-scale ensemble
applications.
